SELLER STRATEGY 
	

	

	          
	

________________


TL;DR:
* Sellers need an overwhelming number of tools in order to operate effectively and none of them work well together—this is the problem we’re solving.
* We have a significant market opportunity with multiple vectors for growth.
* We’re building an integrated commerce ecosystem spanning software, hardware, and financial services.
* We’re taking a differentiated, platform-based approach. 
* We’ve built a scalable, multifaceted growth engine. 
* We have compelling unit economics.
Problem Statement
  

It’s hard to run a business. Running a business may look simple on the surface, but there’s an overwhelming number of tools to research and select in order to successfully run and grow a business. Sellers need a solution for card processing, point of sale, invoicing, website, social presence, appointment/reservation booking, reporting and analytics, inventory and vendor management, customer service, shift scheduling, timecards, employee benefits, payroll, contracts, insurance, accounting, banking, marketing, and more. Not only do they have to pick a solution from the dozens available for each need, but they then have to figure out how to integrate these solutions as none of them work together out of the box. As a result, sellers either forgo a solution, use a mishmash of pen-and-paper solutions, and/or have time-consuming, non-integrated solutions. And this is true not only for small businesses—large businesses also encounter these same problems. For women and minority business owners, running a business is even harder due to systemic injustice in the mainstream financial system where financial services are either less accessible or higher priced.  
Opportunity
We have the opportunity to, and are, changing this. We are giving sellers hardware, software, and financial services that are easily accessible and integrated out of the box. Our integrated approach enables us to not only take share from incumbent players that don’t offer easy-to-use integrated solutions, but also increase the overall size of each market segment by winning sellers that were previously forgoing a solution or using a pen-and-paper solution. Seller demand is so strong for a streamlined solution that sellers are willing to consider providers that say they have an integrated solution even if the reality is that it’s only their sales and marketing that’s integrated (e.g. Toast, iZettle). We have the opportunity to show sellers what true integration is through our products, supported by marketing, case studies, and content.
The size of the opportunity is significant. In the U.S alone, we have identified ~20 million businesses that operate in relevant industry verticals and sizes (targeting up to $100 million in annual sales), and they collectively generate $6 trillion in annual sales. We estimate this represents an $85 billion revenue opportunity across financial services and software monetization streams. Additionally, there are multiple vectors for further growth through: (1) secular tailwinds with card spend growing double digits in the U.S., amplified further by the growing need for contactless or cashless commerce as a result of COVID, (2) growing adoption of software solutions for small businesses, (3) ability to serve larger sellers as we enhance our products (mid-market sellers doing $1M–$100M of annual sales generated >$4 trillion in U.S. annual sales vs. $450B for sellers doing <$250K in annual sales), (4) developing new products, and (5) our current international markets represent an estimated $16 billion in payments adjusted revenue market opportunity not inclusive of the potential value generated from software and other financial services monetization streams, and (6) entering new markets.      
Product and Platform Strategy
The opportunity is massive, but so is the challenge in tackling such a broad area. When we went public in 2015, we had 10 software products with fewer than 10 integrations between them. For example, when we went public, Gift Cards was integrated with Point of Sale but could not be used with Appointments or Online Store. Today we have over 20 software products and 80 new integrations between them—and we still have missing integrations between products and there are more products we can build. We’ll continue to add new products over time, but what matters most and what differentiates us is the integration between products. Without automated integration, sellers are forced to do a lot of manual work themselves. We observe them copying data from one system to another manually or semi-manually (cutting and pasting between software solutions). This requires a lot of time and leads to errors and inconsistencies.
Competitors have taken a product-based approach. They’ve focused on building features to address a niche at the intersection of business type (e.g., retail, food & beverage, professional services), product (e.g., point of sale, website building, lending), business size (e.g., micro, SMB, enterprise), and/or geography (e.g., U.S., Europe, Japan). This approach yields early progress but has scalability limits due to difficulty in subsequently expanding the solution beyond the initial niche. With the growing trend toward both omnichannel and multi-concept businesses, competitors that have focused on one solution and/or business type will be at a disadvantage in serving businesses that need integrated in-person and online sales and/or integrated solutions across retail, food & bev, and/or services. We’re seeing others start to realize this and attempt to replicate our ecosystem strategy through M&A, yielding a non-integrated solution that doesn’t solve the customer’s core problem. We see competitors paper over this in marketing and sales and then lock in duped customers with contracts.  
We’re taking a differentiated approach to software by building an open platform using a service-oriented architecture. Service-oriented architecture breaks down the business logic and data into reusable modules called “services.” We’re building these services such that they can be reused and integrated (by us and by third-party developers using our platform) into a myriad of solutions to serve the needs of customers across products, business types and sizes, and geographies. This approach has a few key benefits: 
1. The reuse of services (e.g., customers, employees, items, orders, appointments, payments, ledger) enables us to do less work to create or enhance each product, which speeds development and creates economies of scale over time. For example, when shelter in place began, we were able to launch a number of new features (e.g., Curbside Pickup and Delivery) to support our sellers very quickly by leveraging existing services to build new experiences. 
2. The reuse of services is the mechanism by which products are integrated into a cohesive ecosystem. For example, the gift card service is integrated with all our points of sale, Invoices, Virtual Terminal, and Online Store, and there’s even an integrated prebuilt Square Marketing campaign for sellers to promote their gift cards. If we hadn’t built a shared service, buyers couldn’t use a gift card they purchased in-store when they shopped online and vice versa.
3. Our open platform allows third-party developers, either partners or developers working for sellers, to leverage and extend our ecosystem. For example, in March we partnered with Facebook to promote small business electronic gift cards. The implementation leveraged our existing Gift Card API and took Facebook only a week to build, test, and deploy.

This approach yields somewhat slower early progress as we have to first build the services and then integrate those services across our products—both of which require time and investment. However, it results in faster progress over the long term and is difficult for competitors to copy. Throwing capital at the problem through M&A won’t yield an integrated and cohesive ecosystem. (Note this also means that M&A is less of a lever for us due to the extent of integration required to create cohesion—unless we’re buying a partner that's already integrated and has little overlapping functionality. Even then, as we've seen with the Weebly acquisition, the extent and cost of integration is substantial.) Further, successful execution on the strategy requires an atypical team culture and organizational structure—and culture is hard to copy. We’re seeing this strategy start to pay off and our competitive moat broaden as a result. COVID-19 is only accelerating this.
Sellers are leveraging our open platform. 22% of GPV in 2019 came from businesses that used or built an integration with our open platform. That’s up 3x from just 3 years ago. We see even higher penetration among our largest sellers—46% of GPV for sellers with >$500K of annualized GPV, up from 21% in Q4 2016. And for these platform-connected sellers, we see 2x higher lifetime value (LTV) than similar-size sellers who don’t use our APIs or an API-connected partner. 
  

We’ve also taken a differentiated approach to hardware by building custom-designed devices rather than white-labeling or skinning third-party hardware. We do this for both accessory products (which work with phones and iPads: Reader and Stand) and integrated products (which are standalone, entirely by Square: Register and Terminal). By custom building our own hardware and cohesively integrating it with our software, we’re able to build more elegant and innovative solutions, resulting in high customer satisfaction (98% for Register and 93% for Terminal). 8% of GPV and ~15% of NVA in Q4 2019 was through Register or Terminal, demonstrating appeal to larger sellers and providing some independence from Apple, Google, and Samsung. With Reader SDK (third-party apps using Square hardware and payments) and Terminal API (third-party point of sale using Square Terminal for buyer-facing display and payments), these differentiated hardware products are also part of our open platform.
For 2020 we are focused on three strategic priorities to capture the opportunity ahead of us: Omnichannel, Global, and Financial Services.  
Omnichannel
Omnichannel is a cohesive experience for buyers and sellers regardless of where, when, or how often they interact. A channel is any medium, mechanism, or forum where a buyer and seller interact (e.g., in-store, over the phone, on the web, on social, via messaging). Omni means enabling all possible channels, both established and emergent. Omnichannel is not something you can buy or bolt on. It is a gestalt experience that is curated by enabling cohesion across all interactions for both buyers and sellers. 
We started the company focused on in-person selling, serving micro sellers with our reader and app (e.g., a seller at the farmers market). Over time we’ve evolved both our hardware and software solutions to serve larger, more complex sellers (e.g., Chase Center) and all sorts of sellers in between.


Hardware offerings span all spectrums of a seller’s needs.  
We’ve done the same thing for selling online as we have with in-person. We have a range of solutions for sellers of all sizes. Online Checkout is the simplest way to start selling online. We also have solutions for selling on social apps, building simple or full-featured custom online stores, and custom mobile apps.   
Omnichannel offerings span all spectrums of a seller’s needs.
We’re leveraging our platform to create purpose-built omnichannel solutions for selling anything from finished goods to made-to-order food & drink to time-based services. We’re also integrating our premium hardware (Square Register and Terminal) with our premium software (Square Retail, Restaurants, and Appointments). Square for Retail and Restaurants launched support for Square Register in H1 2020, and Appointments will launch in H2 2020. Integration with Terminal will launch in 2021. To appeal to a wider range of sellers, we also repackaged our premium software, adopting a freemium model. The free tier has fewer features and is monetized via payments, the mid-tier is our prior offering, and the new premium tier is a virtual bundle of more paid software that acts as lead generation for sales with “Contact Sales” for the price. This change has accelerated new seller adoption for these products. Weekly sign-ups for Square for Retail and Square for Restaurant are up 2–3x since freemium was launched, with ~70% of new sellers leveraging the free tier.
COVID-19 has rapidly accelerated adoption of our online solutions. With an uncertain future for in-store selling, businesses that never considered selling online, or didn’t prioritize it, now are. We witnessed a three-year adoption cycle get compressed to three weeks. This includes entire verticals that did not typically sell online, like grocery stores and plant nurseries, as well as stores that did not prioritize an online channel. Having the flexibility to get online quickly is not just a matter of adding a channel. Building a fully functional online store is not an easy task. It goes beyond putting together a well-designed site, and it typically requires digitizing many operations. Sellers need accurate inventory, attractive photos of their items, easy workflows for order management, and shipping/delivery/pickup. We’re building solutions for all of this. Square is uniquely positioned to help here with the breadth of products in our ecosystem. Sellers that digitize their operations gain operational efficiency, are better positioned to compete with larger companies, and have the opportunity to grow out of the pandemic instead of just getting "back to normal." We also realize—even if many of our sellers don’t realize it yet—that it’s not just about short-term survival during COVID-19 but about long-term survival due to generational shifts (Millennial, Gen Z) in behavior for discovering and purchasing goods and services.   
Square for Retail integrates seamlessly with Square Online Store via shared platform services.
Since the pandemic started, over 50% of both Square for Retail and Square for Restaurants subscribers have signed up for Square Online Store. In total, we’re now hosting >250K live sites via Square Online Store. In June, we processed >4 million pickup orders and nearly one million shipped orders. Further, 33% of new Square Online Store sellers in Q2 were net new to Square, demonstrating strength in net-new acquisition for our ecosystem. This is a large opportunity as a lot of businesses are still offline only. 
With COVID-19 restrictions, restaurants are now turning to mobile ordering even for dine-in. To support this, we’re adding QR code based ordering (in alpha now, launching Q3). With the acceleration of omnichannel adoption, there is also an increased focus on core communication with the kitchen. To date, we’ve built a kitchen display system (KDS) with basic functionality, including routing quick sales to the KDS and syncing item/ticket completion between KDS devices. With our sellers’ focus on online ordering, we’ve shifted our KDS roadmap to include building an integration with our Orders API, which will provide a solution for the most common use cases. We will launch a KDS public beta in July, with a focus on low-complexity quick serve restaurants, and will then incrementally add features to broaden applicability and utility.   
Square for Restaurants, Square Kitchen Display System, and Square Online Store are integrated via shared platform services.
Some retailers and restaurants are also creatively leveraging Square Appointments to allow their customers to reserve virtual or in-person shopping time or schedule pickup times. For health & beauty businesses, many states have reopening requirements that each customer sign a COVID-19 waiver. To support this, we’re integrating Appointments and Square Contracts (a digital contract solution built to help sellers win chargeback disputes) and including a prebuilt COVID-19 waiver. We’re also integrating Appointments and Online Store, replacing the current Online Booking Site (shown below), giving sellers more control over the design of their site and more options for both booking and selling online. We’re currently working on adding support for resource booking (e.g., massage room, color station) and will add support for group bookings in 2021. These two major features will be a big unlock for (1) supporting larger sellers in traditional health & beauty use cases, (2) some of the new COVID use cases we’re seeing, and (3) will result in platform services that we can then reuse to support restaurant reservations.






Square Appointments integrates with Online Booking and Square Assistant via shared platform services.  
Square Appointments includes Square Assistant—an artificial intelligence (AI) based automated messaging experience that helps buyers confirm, cancel, or reschedule appointments. Square Assistant automatically replies to buyers, giving sellers time back and reducing no-shows. This is the first application of conversational AI, but we see applications across a much broader range of our ecosystem. We are building out Square Messenger to enable buyers to communicate with sellers and sellers to respond either directly or through Square Assistant. In 2019 buyers sent sellers 8.5M messages in response to a Digital Receipt or the seller’s reply to Feedback and ~4.5M (annualized) Appointments-related messages.
In addition to messaging channels, we’re also enabling marketplace channels with our July 9 acquisition of Stitch Labs, an existing Square partner. Stitch Labs is a retail operations management platform that helps SMB to mid-market businesses run their omnichannel businesses by synchronizing orders, fulfillment, inventory, and accounting across many different sales channels and fulfillment partners. Together, Square and Stitch Labs will make it easier for sellers to publish to Google Shopping, Facebook, Amazon, and more. We’ll be able to leverage Stitch Labs’ integrations to third-party logistics networks that provide 300+ warehouse locations and shipping services to SMBs.
Square Dashboard helps sellers manage the complexity of selling across channels and gives sellers a real-time and trended 360° view of their business. This includes in-person and online sales, top items sold, relative performance of locations and employees, most valuable customers, customer feedback, and more. Even large sellers drool over all the real-time analytics because they’ve never had this level of insight into their business before. This 360° view of the business across channels and departments/concepts has been the key to the accelerating success of our upmarket sales team. For example, Juice Press, a 98-location business, replaced over 16 different applications and customer data sets (e.g., online ordering, marketing, store sales tracking) with Square to gain insights into their business and customers that they’d never had before.  
We’re making it easier for sellers to get a real-time, 360° view of their buyers. This includes buying history across online and in-person channels. For multiconcept sellers, sellers are able to see buyer history across departments (e.g., restaurant with retail wine shop, full-service restaurant, next-door quick-service restaurant, and catering, or a retail clothing store with in-store cafe, or a stadium with parking, retail shop, concessions). No other competitor enables this because no one else has integrated cloud-based solutions with support spanning multiple verticals. In addition, we let sellers leverage Square’s global network of buyer information to easily reach their buyers via Square Marketing. 50M marketing emails are sent to buyers every month. Sellers can see not only who opened or clicked through an email but also who subsequently made an in-store purchase. Sellers have generated $12 in sales for every $1 spent on Marketing. We’re in the process of integrating Square Marketing and Square Online Store so that sellers can track efficacy of campaigns across channels. Square Loyalty (38M buyers enrolled in the U.S.) similarly helps sellers grow their business, driving an average 70% increase in frequency of buyer visits, with 1.5M rewards redeemed every month. Buyers can earn and redeem rewards both in person and online—including via third-party products that integrate via Loyalty API. Together, these tools are an important part of our growth because we grow when we help sellers grow.
We also see substantial potential in connecting the Square buyer network with Cash App, benefitting both ecosystems. The Seller ecosystem needs a buyer app to drive greater buyer engagement on behalf of sellers. However, buyers are unlikely to download an app per seller or even a Square buyer app unless there’s meaningful recurring benefit. Integrating Square buyer engagement tools into the Cash App could solve this. There’s also the opportunity to provide sellers with enhanced ability to reach new buyers in the Cash network. Cash App benefits by (1) leveraging the massive scale of the Square buyer network as a free acquisition channel, further fueling the growth of the Cash network, and (2) driving more engagement with Cash App due to more utility. Since 2019, we have been running a pilot integration between Loyalty and Cash across 10 mid-market Loyalty sellers (Loyalty has ~15K sellers). When a buyer enrolls in a new Loyalty program (2.1M total new enrollments per month), we send them an SMS message prompting them to download the Cash App to see their points and rewards. We have seen relatively high conversion for this experience, resulting in over 173K Cash App downloads and 10% conversion to new Cash App customers. Unfortunately, we have seen little subsequent buyer engagement with points and rewards in the initial pilot. We believe the initial user experience in Cash App is subpar. We need to iterate on the experience and underlying technical infrastructure before rolling out more broadly. Loyalty is also only one piece of the puzzle. We have opportunities with Coupons, Gift Cards, Receipts, and Feedback. Below are explorations of what some of these experiences could look like. 
________________


  

	
As a buyer, I can see my loyalty status and available rewards with sellers I shop with. 
I can easily ID myself and have the coupon applied at the point of purchase in a quick and touchless way (via QR code scan or otherwise).
	

  

	As a buyer, I can see outstanding Gift Cards I have with sellers I shop with. 
I can easily ID myself and have the GC balance applied at the point of purchase in a quick and touchless way (via QR code scan or otherwise). 
I can add value to an existing card, or initiate a purchase of a new Gift Card. 
	



  

	



As a seller, I am able to publish offers to reach new customers via Cash App. This would likely take shape through integration with Square Marketing. 
As a buyer, I get notifications for new coupons (e.g., Black Friday) and discounts (e.g., Happy Hour from 5–7 p.m.) from known sellers. 
As a buyer, I am reminded that I have a reward to leverage when I am physically near the seller (not shown).
	Global
International is rapidly scaling, reaching 8% of total GPV and >10% of New Volume Added (NVA) in 2019 (and 9% of GPV in Q2). We see strong retention for each cohort (group of new sellers that joined in a given period) and the first year of each new cohort is bigger relative to the last one.  
We believe we have good product-market fit for our ecosystem given our net promoter scores (NPS) are on par or stronger than competitors in each international market. For example, here’s the comparison of Square to competitors in Australia.
  
Base: SMBs that use the following companies (Q1 2020: Square*: n=27*, Shopify*: n=28*, PayPal: n=134, ING*: n=23*, Westpac: n=50, Commonwealth Bank: n=115, ANZ: n=76, National Australia Bank: n=68) Note: Respondents were shown three brands at random that they used. If the respondent used Square, Square was always shown. Test for significance was carried out. ▲ Significantly higher than Square ▼ Significantly lower than Square. *Small sample size (n<30), use indicatively.
However, awareness of Square and our products are low relative to competitors—that’s our opportunity. For example, here’s aided awareness of Square relative to others in Australia.

  This is why our first priority for global growth is increasing awareness of Square and what we offer in our existing markets. We’ve been investing in paid brand and ecosystem advertising utilizing TV, digital channels, and billboards to increase awareness. Due to COVID, we paused the brand and ecosystem campaigns that were to run in April and quickly pivoted to launch a new multi-product campaign highlighting our omnichannel capabilities. We’ve reworked the messaging and creative and are launching new brand and ecosystem campaigns globally in Q3. This will be the first time we’re doing a coordinated global campaign with shared, but localized, creative assets. We’re excited. 
Our second priority is launching our existing products in our existing markets. This remains a multiyear journey as we balance resourcing global growth versus upmarket growth. For our omnichannel software and hardware products, we expect to  make substantial progress in reaching product parity in our existing markets (CA, UK, AU, JP) in 2020 and will finish that work in 2021. With our financial services products we expect to make progress in 2020 by launching support for Apple Pay and Google Pay to all markets, Capital in AU, Card in CA, and local eMoney cards in JP. Reaching global parity with our financial services products will stretch into at least 2022 and likely beyond due to the greater challenges with licensing and compliance that typically require substantial bespoke work per market. While there are numerous challenges, it’s important that we do launch our financial services products globally as they are a meaningful part of the value of the ecosystem as well as our monetization strategy. 
Our third priority is expanding into new international markets. In 2020 we’ll enable platform-level support for payments in Ireland and France. This includes identity verification, payment acceptance, settlement, compliance, and risk. We’ll then replace Adyen as the processor for Weebly subscriptions and (stretch) replace Stripe as the default processor for Weebly in these two countries. In 2021, we’ll launch card-present payments and more of our product suite, and invest in go-to-market activities. We’ve learned from our experience in the UK that product suite + awareness spending + earned media are all required for success in a market where we aren’t the first mover. We can’t skimp on spend in these areas if we want to succeed. If we have sufficient incremental resourcing, we’ll also lay down platform-level support for our next tranche of new countries. 
To reduce the work it requires to lay down and maintain platform support for new countries, we’re building new platform capabilities this year to directly authorize and capture payments with Mastercard and Visa without the dependency of a bank acquirer or intermediary gateway to the card networks. We're prioritizing markets where Square is eligible for network licenses, including Canada, Europe, and the United Kingdom. It simplifies our market and product expansion plans, improves scalability, and inevitably reduces both our payments cost structure and the abstraction and complexity of working through financial service suppliers that are openly also competing with us. We anticipate being issued acquiring licenses across Canada, Europe, and the United Kingdom with both Mastercard and Visa this quarter. As it relates to our acquiring licenses with Visa, Square, Inc. is entering into a parental guarantee pursuant to which it will agree to guarantee the satisfaction of obligations of the subsidiaries that participate in the acquiring program. We’re also adding support for global document verification, which will reduce the amount of bespoke work we have to do to support identity verification for each new market.
Financial Services
We strive to dramatically improve transparency, accessibility, and ease of use for traditionally served and underserved sellers alike. Specifically, we have an emphasis on helping sellers and their employees better understand and manage their cash flow. We have heard repeatedly that cash flow is a struggle for many businesses. 61% of U.S. small businesses regularly struggle with managing cash flow, according to the State of Small Business Cash Flow, February 2019. 
We started by making payments transparent and easily accessible. We offer payments as a service, streamlining the need to stitch together an acquirer, gateway, risk management, hardware, and software. We provide sellers out-of-the-box PCI compliance, encryption, fraud and chargeback management tools, and next-day availability of funds. For sellers who need money even faster we built Instant Transfer, which offers sellers immediate access to their funds for a 1.5% fee. Instant Transfer reached $7B in volume transferred in 2019. In order to give sellers immediate access to their funds without them having to pay an additional fee, we launched Square Card. We earn ~1% of each purchase made on the Card through the interchange model. Of the sellers who are using the card, they spent 34% of their GPV on their Card in Q2. 45% of our sellers did not have a business debit card before using Square Card. Of this group, 51% cite reasons that are the banks’ fault versus lack of interest or trying. This affirms that we are supporting sellers who were previously underserved. 
We also facilitate loans via Square Capital to sellers based on the unique transactional and behavioral data within Square. Our proprietary and real-time data, elegant experience, and application of machine learning enables us to approve loans quickly with terms that are straightforward. Sellers often receive funds the next business day—eliminating the lengthy loan application process. With Capital we are also supporting the underserved. Our average Capital loan size is $7K, far lower than the average for small business loans. In addition, 35% of loans through Square Capital went to minority-owned businesses, compared to 27% of traditional loans, and 58% of loans went to women-owned businesses, compared to 17% of traditional loans. We provide credit to businesses that have otherwise been locked out. 
Looking ahead we anticipate that business owners will embrace more fluid schedules, distributed teams, and contract or contingent labor. For hourly workers, gig work norms—such as payment when work is completed—will be expected of “traditional” workplaces. Small businesses will seek modern financial tools to gain an advantage in an emerging economy. We’re building Square Payroll to meet these demands. We believe employers should be able to pay their employees frequently and fast, and employees should have access to their earned wages and important benefits the moment they need them. One of the reasons businesses continue to accept cash is because their employees want instant access to their tips at the end of their shift. We want to enable this for credit card tips—and a full day's wages as well. We will make this possible with instant money movement, unlocked by connecting Square Balance and Cash App. 
  
Connecting the two ecosystems with Payroll and Cash App, allowing for faster money movement.
We also have the opportunity to address frustration with traditional banking. Recently, the overwhelmingly positive feedback from PPP was that sellers see us as a replacement for their current banking relationship. Sellers have lost trust in traditional banks after being affected by the Wells Fargo scandal, charged countless hidden fees from other banks, and unable to get sufficient help during the PPP process. This shows up in the data: the average NPS score for our sellers’ top three banks is only 15. Meanwhile, they’ve seen Square step up as a true partner and are asking us to extend our Square capabilities to offer a viable alternative to existing banks. We already have over 300,000 sellers storing ~$50M of funds within Square Balance rather than settling to an external bank account—up 2x from the end of Q1. We’re excited about the opportunity to claim the future of business banking and tackle the $60B–$100B revenue opportunity across 65M small businesses in the U.S. (plus further opportunity internationally in the future). 
In 2020, we’ll add support for account and routing numbers to Square Balance and improve our reporting to provide increased visibility into the stored balance. We’ll also change the default from linking an external bank account for deposits to depositing to Square Balance for new sellers onboarding to Square.
In 2021 we’ll work toward creating a fully functional, free checking account with no applications, no credit checks, and no fees. We will also add FDIC insurance, the ability to deposit checks and pay vendors by checks, and support for automated bill pay all within Square Balance. For longer-term cash flow needs, we’re building automated savings. Sellers will be able to automatically set aside a portion of their Square sales for common expenses like sales taxes, and for emergencies more generally. These funds will be seamlessly saved to a Square Financial Services–enabled high-yield savings account. Our research has shown that sellers struggle to save for the future because they have difficulty forecasting unforeseen/complex expenses and don’t know best practices. We believe our savings offering can help and provide an additional building block in a suite of banking products for sellers. 
We will also allow sellers to dip negative into their checking account without overdraft fees. If the negative balance isn’t offset by sales within a certain period of time, we’ll automatically cover it from their linked bank account or rainy day sub-account, or gracefully transition into a longer-term credit product with Corporate Card or Capital Loan.   
We envision an overall experience like that shown above.
Growth Strategy
There are four key levers in our growth engine: (1) remarkable products, (2) efficient acquisition, (3) efficient cross-sell, and (4) a robust partner ecosystem. These levers intersect, forming multiple growth loops that reinforce each other.
  


1. Remarkable Products 
Our products are easy to use and designed to be self-serve so sellers can quickly and easily onboard without expensive hand-holding by us. This also makes it faster and less expensive for our Professional Services team or external agency partners to onboard new sellers who want white-glove service. In 2019 self-onboarded sellers generated 80% of New Profit Added (NPA is a measure of Gross Profit from new cohorts). Further, because our products are elegant, fast, and cohesive, we have many promoters who share their positive experience and refer others, which in turn reduces our acquisition costs. Our hardware products have 4+ star ratings on Amazon, and our software products have 4.5+ star ratings on the iOS and Android app stores—high marks. Amazon and the app stores also serve as efficient channels for discovery and distribution. Finally, our remarkability is also reflected in our Net Promoter Score (NPS). The benchmark for other companies in the financial services and technology industries are typically in the mid 30s whereas our NPS is in the 60s.
  

  

2. Efficient Acquisition 
To accelerate our acquisition flywheel, we use a broad set of paid channels (e.g., search, social, display, direct mail, TV). We also have a Sales team to convert high-value inbound sellers as well as to do outbound prospecting. This translates into more new sellers and new revenue. Those new sellers in turn drive more word-of-mouth referrals.
We have a strong track record of investing in paid marketing acquisition with efficiency. That’s represented by our payback period, which has remained at 4 quarters or less for several years as we have scaled spend. In fact, paybacks started nearing 3 quarters while growth in sales and marketing spend also trailed growth in Gross Profit. In 2019, we spent less than 20% of gross profit on sales and marketing—well below competitive norms of 30% to 40%. This is too efficient given the size of the opportunity that we’re addressing and has contributed to the deceleration of NPA growth, which in turn drives the deceleration of GPV and gross profit growth. To accelerate growth, our original plan for 2020 was to increase spend by $70 million, or 30% year over year, while maintaining payback at 4 to 5 quarters.
  
  
  

We see the greatest opportunity to drive growth by driving awareness of Square and the solutions we provide. In the U.S., only 52% of SMBs in our target verticals are aware of Square, and it’s even lower internationally (CA at 46%, AU at 24%, UK at 20%, and JP at 12%). This is not surprising as we’ve traditionally invested the vast majority of our spend on performance rather than awareness marketing. In our largest markets, the primary driver of awareness is seeing Square being used at another business. This is a highly efficient (free) way to drive awareness, but it (a) presents a chicken-and-egg problem in new markets (though we try to bootstrap this by working with events/festivals and seeking out buzzy sellers) and (b) can only scale as fast as our base of sellers is scaling, so therefore it can’t accelerate our growth rate. 
  


Therefore, in 2020, the majority of our incremental investment in marketing is being spent on brand and ecosystem awareness campaigns across all five of our existing markets. Investment in awareness will increase traffic to the Square website and drive greater efficiency for performance marketing by increasing the share of brand versus non-brand search (CPAs for branded terms are typically cheaper than non-branded). Additionally, as we increase broader awareness across more of our solutions, we are able to attract larger sellers that are more likely to adopt multiple solutions, increasing LTV. In 2019, we began increasing investment in awareness spend and saw strong results, giving us confidence in investing more. 


	U.S.
	AU
	UK
	Awareness
	+9 points
	+8 points
	+6 points
	Website Traffic
	+12 points
	+116 points
	+28 points
	Acquisition Revenue
	+9 points
	+29 points
	+35 points
	
By increasing traffic to the website, we also drive more inbound leads to sales. Inbound is a key part of our overall sales strategy, but we also have been scaling our outbound sales. Outbound sales enable us to extend our reach and not be constrained by lack of awareness. Overall, sales is an increasingly important acquisition channel representing a growing portion of both GPV and gross profit from new cohorts with increasing efficiency. With COVID-19, we paused hiring for sales because we were unsure of efficiency. However, we have since seen strong demand for our solutions from sellers who have been forced to make changes to how they operate. In Q2, we had set quota at 50% of pre-COVID expectations, but saw attainment of 230%, implying attainment of 115% adjusted for pre-COVID quota. With these strong results we’ve unpaused all 2020 sales hiring, which will result in 35% YoY growth in year-end HC, and expect to drive 4-to-5 quarter payback on sales exiting 2020.
  
  

The combination of ongoing investments in product, marketing, and sales is enabling us to win with larger and larger sellers. We’re seeing the fastest growth with sellers over $125K in annual GPV, which now make up 55% of total GPV. And we see these larger sellers more frequently adopting software with integrated payments versus payments as a sidecar terminal. Sidecar payments (enter an amount, press charge, and swipe/dip/tap a card) are increasingly a commodity—particularly for larger sellers. We differentiate and are able to charge non-commodity prices (for both payments and software) with the integration of payments and our software products. The higher value delivered to the customer with software drives greater monetization and retention, ultimately driving higher lifetime value. 
  

	  

	We also see demand for more of our products from sellers as they get larger and the value of automation and our financial services increases. Further, as we’ve expanded our ecosystem, we are seeing the average number of products used increase for all seller size segments over time. (Note that the metrics shown in the chart at the right do not include hardware devices or free products like Dashboard.)    
3. Efficient Cross-Sell
Our large base of sellers together with our integrated products that make it easy for sellers to adopt new products in our ecosystem enable us to efficiently drive cross-sell through automation. Machine-learning algorithms identify the right products at the right time for each seller. We use in-app messages, banners in Square Dashboard, and email to drive cross-sell at scale. In 2019, we sent ~300 million automated cross-sell and retention messages to sellers, with 600K messages (~0.20% conversion rate) that led to a cross-sale or targeted customer engagement. There remains ample opportunity to increase the conversion rate by adding more signals to our machine learning models, adding campaigns, and optimizing creative assets. Our App Marketplace also enables efficient cross-sell of third-party partner products. Sellers that used over two products represented 31% of all active sellers in 2019 and 44% of larger sellers (>$125K GPV), with only 10% to 20% of sellers using three or more products. This signals further opportunity to increase cross-sell and broader product adoption.  
In addition to digital channels, our Account Management team makes outbound calls to sellers, also leveraging machine-learning algorithms for targeting. Each day our account managers get a list of sellers where the predicted ROI of a call is high, and they’re given ML-driven recommendations on the best time to call in order to reach a decision maker and what products to suggest. We’ve also begun to ramp up consultative cross-sell when sellers call in to Customer Success. This will help with overall retention as we help sellers discover and use our solutions. The incremental revenue from cross-sell will also help offset some of our support costs and therefore enable us to spend more on making it easier to contact us. Friction in contacting support is the second most frequent reason for dissatisfaction by detractors in our net promoter surveys. However, our customer satisfaction survey scores for support are high, 85%, from sellers that are able to reach us on the phone. 
Together, all of these cross-sell and retention efforts increase the overall lifetime value of a seller, which drives faster payback resulting in more efficiency for our acquisition spend.  
4. Robust Partner Ecosystem
Partners help us extend our ecosystem and fill gaps in our offering that would otherwise block adoption or cause churn. In addition, they also serve as an acquisition channel, bringing us new sellers, and are a source of direct revenue when we refer our sellers to them. We are an attractive partner because we also serve as an acquisition channel for other SMB-focused software vendors, agencies, and resellers by cross-selling their offerings into our large base of sellers. 
In Q2, 1M active sellers (+26% YoY and 39% of total) used a partner integration, 149K new partner connections were made by sellers (up 60% YoY), and a total of 524 partners live in the ecosystem. Our partner integrations cover a range of categories including Accounting, ERP, Order & Delivery, eCommerce, Booking, Inventory Management, and a range of verticals including Retail, Restaurants, Healthcare, Professional Services, and Field Services. 
We’re also building relationships with agency partners who can do custom work for sellers seeking trusted experts and white-glove service for more advanced setup and design needs. We’ve seen increased demand for this from sellers getting started selling online. Since April, >150 Square Online Store websites for sellers averaging $1M per year in total GPV (with online representing >25% of the total) have been built and launched by agency partners. 
Unit Economics   
With our differentiated platform and ecosystem approach, we’re delivering growth across both active sellers and average gross profit per seller. 
Prior to COVID, our growth engine had enabled us to achieve positive gross profit retention for every quarterly cohort since 2012. Even our oldest are still seeing positive retention despite being 7 years post sign-up and onboarding. Even without any new sellers, our revenue base would grow every year based on our existing sellers. Cross-selling, helping our sellers grow, and growing our own platform and product capabilities alongside our sellers enables us to take on more of their business and enhances cohort economics over time. In addition, each cohort we bring in has been bigger than the prior year’s cohort (this dynamic is also captured through our internal metrics in NPA growth). This is because our products are resonating with larger sellers, and as our product portfolio grows, we can do more at the start of our relationship with customers.
  
This ultimately drives high customer lifetime value and return on investment. For example, for our Q1 2015 cohort, we spent $32M in sales and marketing to acquire that group of sellers. Over the following four quarters, that cohort of sellers generated $33M in cumulative gross profit, recuperating our initial spend. Over the next five years, the Q1 2015 cohort generated a cumulative $172M in gross profit, or 5.4x ROI, on the sales and marketing spent. We see similar results when we look across all our historical cohorts. This 4-6x return on our initial sales and marketing spend (over 5 years) demonstrates the annuity value of each new cohort we acquire. These are best-in-class unit economics.    
  
We recognize that these unit economics reflect dynamics through 2019 and prior to COVID and disruption to the macroeconomic environment. Our existing seller base has and will continue to be significantly affected by a prolonged COVID impact. Since COVID hit in March, we have seen AR retention hit a trough of –46% with recovery to –5% by June’s end. With this disruption, we expect paybacks from the mid-late 2019 and Q1 2020 cohorts to elongate beyond our historical averages. 
However, our high ROI baseline enables us to absorb the disruption to revenue retention and still hit attractive unit economics. In a more conservative scenario, ROI on our sales and marketing would still be 3x to 4x if our cohorts see a sustained –25% impact to revenue retention for two consecutive years (vs. the positive retention that we’ve historically seen). Additionally, we have seen strong acquisition activity for post-COVID cohorts (i.e., new sellers that started on Square on/after late March). AR35 revenue, a proxy measure for NPA, is growing year over year despite the impact of both COVID and reduced sales and marketing spend in Q2.  Additionally, the ramps of new cohorts are tracking in line or ahead of pre-COVID cohorts, suggesting attractive paybacks if those trends hold. As such, our sales and marketing investments in the second half of 2020 still anticipate a payback of 4 to 5 quarters.   
Given this, we are confident that investing further in acquisition will drive long-term growth of the business. We intend to more aggressively invest behind growth by increasing payback period to an average of 18 months. With these paybacks, we still earn attractive ROI (3–4x over 5 years) while also generating greater long-term profitability.