Omnichannel – Definition, Strategy, and Tactics
Author: matthew@                                                                                                         Date: February 1st, 2018
________________


Introduction        1
What Are Channels        1
What is Omnichannel?        2
What is Omnichannel Not?        2
An Omnichannel Opportunity        3
An Omnichannel Strategy        4
Platform Work        4
Channel Integration Work        5
Channel Management Experience Work        6
________________


Introduction
Omnichannel is the emergent experience of multiple products working together to manifest cohesive interactions for buyers, and cohesive interactions for sellers, regardless of how, where, when, or how often the buyer and seller interact. Omnichannel is not something you can buy, or just bolt on; but a gestalt experience that is curated by enabling cohesion across all product interactions for both buyers and sellers. 
What Are Channels
A channel is any medium, mechanism, or forum where a buyer and seller can interact. The “Omni” refers to the fact that we want to enable all possible channels; both the ones we have today, the new ones emerging, and the ones yet to be invented. 


As Alyssa has noted, there are 4 common categories of channels we can identify today: 


1. Brick and Mortar. E.g. In person sales that happen at a physical location.
2. Messaging. E.g. Email, SMS, Phone, Facebook Messenger, iMessage, etc.
3. Web. E.g. Online Satores, bespoke websites, Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest.
4. Digital Marketplaces. E.g. Caviar, Amazon, Thumbtack, Uber, Facebook Marketplaces.


Today, Square is strong in Brick and Mortar, has only the most basic of toeholds in Web, and beyond Caviar has almost no meaningful presence in Digital Marketplaces. Moreover, our own products and systems were not built with the concept of multiple channels; as we focused mostly on Brick and Mortar, and prior to that, just in-person mobile card payments. 
What is Omnichannel?
From a buyer’s point of view, it should feel like they’re always interacting with the same business – regardless of channel. Every channel has its own affordances, buyer’s don’t expect a homogenous experience, but within reason they expect the obvious things to work everywhere and in the obvious way. E.g.  Regardless of in person, online, on your phone, whatever that what’s available to buy is the same, your sales history is the same, your gift cards always work, your cards on file are available, any / all of your information is available.


From a seller’s point of view, they should feel like they’re operating a single business – regardless of channel. Every channel has its own affordances, sellers don’t expect a homogenous experience; e.g. an image suitable for Instagram is different than one for Amazon. However, within reason, they expect the obvious things to work and for information and capabilities to be centralized. E.g. one place to check their sales, one place to check the status of their orders, one place to manage inventory, one place to manage customer information, etc.
What is Omnichannel Not?
Omnichannel is not an online store. An online store is a channel, just one of many possible channels. Why do people often use Omnichannel as a synonym for online store? Because for many merchants, online represented a unique enough channel that their existing workflows and technologies didn’t support it – causing a bad buyer and seller experience. However, it’s no longer that simple. 


Omnichannel is not eCommerce. The term eCommerce itself is often abused, but it often means one of two things: (1) a payment that happens over the internet. (2) an online store. For (2) see above. For (1), it’s clear that this is just one thing that happens over some channels (i.e. channels over the internet). Omnichannel is much more than that, as it covers in person and over the phone. Moreover, Omnichannel is encomposes the entire interaction between buyer and seller, not just the payment.


Omnichannel is not a product. Omnichannel is not something you can shrinkwrap, or sign-up for, or choose to adopt. It’s the emergent property of many things working together seamlessly. In this sense, it’s more akin to great teamwork; you can have a set of individuals, or you can have a team, or you can have a team that manifests great teamwork. Today most sellers have a set of products and hacks they use to manage their many channels. We want to first provide them with the tools to manage that complexity (i.e. get a team). Then we want to make it great, and exhibit the kind of flow that only a great team can. 


Omnichannel is never done. There are always new channels being invented, and new experiences to enable or improve. Omnichannel has always existed, since the beginning of commerce, the problem today is that the number of channels is increasing faster than typical businesses, or consumers, can keep up with. That’s the challenge and the opportunity.
An Omnichannel Opportunity
There are 4 primary drivers of why sellers can get left behind in the modern world of commerce:


1. They don’t have the time.
2. They don’t have the money.
3. They don’t have the knowledge.
4. They don’t have the access.


Sometimes it’s all 4; e.g. many of our micro sellers who only take mobile card payments didn’t have the time, money, knowledge, or access to card payments. Square solved all 4 for millions of people, with our original product. 


For Omnichannel, it is also often all 4, but especially time and knowledge. Why should a seller not be on Instagram just because they don’t know how it works nor how to get started? We can help. Why should a seller have to manually reconcile sales or inventory for online sales, and for their store? They don’t have that kind of time to spend, and we can help.


The problem today isn’t that no one has Omnichannel, the problem is that doing it well is becoming table stakes and most everyone does it poorly, because they don’t have the time, money, knowledge, or access to do it better. They fake it through great manual effort and partial solutions, this is true of even large sellers! The gaps are many, and today most sellers and buyers have a terrible Omnichannel experience. Square’s opportunity is to take this from bad to great. 


And the problem is getting worse! As the number of channels is increasing faster than ever before; sellers can’t be expected to keep up with all the new ways and places to sell or interact with buyers. And buyers increasingly can’t rely on businesses, especially smaller ones, to provide good experiences (or any at all) across these many experiences.


The word “Omnichannel” focuses on the channels, specifically all of the channels (“omni”) but the help wanted for our sellers, and their buyers, that we call “Omnichannel” is more around making it easy to enable and manage these channels. Sellers want to focus on their business and whatever it is they love about it; however, they know Omnichannel is necessary and they’re distracted by the time and tedium it takes to do it well – so many either don’t do it, or do it poorly.


No company has yet built a great ecosystem of tools for businesses that manifests a great Omnichannel experience; some companies are attempting to help in their limited waysm e.g. BigCommerce lets you publish to Amazon, and other places; and Shopify has integrated web/offline for Retail. However, Square’s approach to commerce to build a ecosystem of tools for small businesses, with a focus on experience, all built on top of a commerce platform. This makes us uniquely positioned to tie everything together at a level of fidelity that’s never been seem. However, we have a lot of work to do – it will take years to get more than just the basics off the ground – but it’s a strategic investment if we believe small businesses are here to stay, or we want them to be here to stay, and we want to help them participate in an increasingly complex world of commerce.


An Omnichannel Strategy
The core of Square’s strategy for its Seller business is the Commerce Platform. The Commerce Platform we’re building will enable cohesion between products, because the data and capabilities are shared at a fundamental level. Similarly, the products and experiences we build on top of this platform can take advantage of this cohesion. The Commerce Platform also allows us to interact, in a well-defined and scalable way, with external parties. This is critical for working for channels we will never own (e.g. Facebook, Amazon). Similarly, the Commerce Platform helps us work for large merchants who can’t adopt all of Square, but just want part, they can use the platform to integrate with their systems. 


Our Omnichannel Strategy is similar, it will be enabled by the Platform and augmented by the products built on the platform, and the products that integrate with the platform. However, Omnichannel touches on virtually every aspect of a buyer and seller interacting, and so there isn’t just one thread of work or team that owns it; instead it’s most of the company.


In the end, we should end up with seller and buyer experiences that are extremely cohesive, simple to understand and use, but powerful enough to scale to many more types of channels and for every type and size of seller. That’s ambitious, and somewhat vague, but we’ll fill that in with a description of the tactics we’re using to implement the strategy.


There are 3 major categories of work: Platform Work, Channel Integration Work, and Channel Management Experience Work. We’ll take each in turn:
Platform Work
The platform is our core differentiator, it is something virtually no one else is doing – rather most competitors build for a single vertical, or in a non-platform way. However, our platform – as it matures – should have a compound effect that separates us further and further from others vs what we can do, how fast we can do it, and how well we do it.  Here are some of the major threads of Omnichannel work:


The Order Platform. In the middle of last year we started designing the Order Platform, and late last year started development. The Order is a central concept within the platform. It is the digital representation, i.e. the data model, for a commerce interaction between a buyer and a seller. It represents the entire lifecycle of a buyer and seller interacting on what to buy, the buyer paying, and any follow-ups that may happen afterwards (returns, etc). It’s more general than a payment transaction, because an Order encompasses far more: e.g. payments, fulfillment, the assembly of the Order (e.g. sending things to the kitchen). The main milestone here is to enable Order Injection through the API, i.e. be able to create, and manage, and Order via the API and see it show up somewhere (anywhere!). This is a prerequisite for most experiences we want to build.


eCommerce Payments. Square carrying the payment is not required for us to provide an Omnichannel experience, and for some channels we won’t be able to carry the payment (e.g. Amazon). However, we believe we can get to a great Omnichannel experience, better than anyone else, if we do carry the payment. This is because we can ensure that customers are getting a good rate (sometimes the best), and have higher fidelity around the payment lifecycle of the buyer/seller interaction than is sometimes possible with 3rd party systems. The major efforts here are, related to Omnichannel, are exploring Facebook payments, and working with customers like BigCommerce, Weebly, WooCommerce, and others to be able to carry the payment.


Developer APIs. All platform work we do, for it to be truly meaningful for Omnichannel, needs to be exposed externally. This is because so many of the channels are not controlled by us, so we need them to integrate us, or us with them, and the platform is how we do that. As such, there is always a thread of work going on to ensure we have the right APIs, that they’re scalable, and that they’re easy to use. If above items represent the iceberg below the water, this would be the tip.
Channel Integration Work
In the age of the Internet, making commerce working across many channels is more or less synonymous with doing integrations with external partners, or them integrating with us. Or, in the case of our own products, making sure we integrate with ourselves (which is not a given, and doubly so if we use acquisition as a lever to accelerate our product surface area). There are many threads of work here, but we’ll talk about them instead by the broader channel categories:


Brick & Mortar Integrations. Our primary work here is ensuring we work with ourselves. Square’s strength is Brick & Mortar, and ensuring we integrate with our own POSes and other tools is table stakes for us; if we can’t provide cohesion with ourselves we will never be trusted to provide cohesion across channels we don’t own. The primary projects here are an Orders applet in our POSes, to manage the state of an order. The flagship project here is Square for Restaurants / Caviar integration.


Digital Marketplace Integrations: Caviar is the defacto flagship here, since we own it. However, we’ve never really integrated with it, and that work is happening now; we talk about the Square for Restaurants work above but there’s also plans to help unify buyer identity, payment processing, and inventory / catalog on Square’s platform. Beyond Caviar, we’re exploring a partnership with Facebook to enable access to Facebook Marketplace, which is their burgeoning marketplace product.


Web Integrations: We have long hand some nominal integrations with BigCommerce, Weebly, and others. However, the Square for Retail team, Developers, and Commerce Platform are working to massively upgrade these experiences. The work is make it easy to sign-up / add these website building / online commerce engines to our ecosystem. The dream is to have order status, reporting data, customer data, and even billing all centrally managed by Square – so it feels tightly integrated. The threads of work here are many: eCommerce payment work, the Order API integrations, Catalog sync’ing, Single-Sign-On, partnerships negotiations, and more! In many ways, this is the most obvious form of Omnichannel, and it’s the most common abuse of the term, to treat it as synonymous with being able to sell online. Additionally, the sunsetting of our own Online Store plays an important role here – as there’s work to transition people to a superior partnerships integration. 


Messaging Integrations. Square is not making major investments here yet. However, the most noteworthy entry here is Square Invoices, which provides our main form of messaging-based payments, via Invoices sent over email or SMS. 
Channel Management Experience Work
There are a lot of product experiences involved in making commerce work. And in some sense, they all roll up into Omnichannel, but that’s not very useful for thinking about the work in logical, smaller, pieces. Instead, for this section, I want to focus on the channel management – as it’s the glue at the intersection of all the pieces that makes Omnichannel more than the sum of its part – and is most important to get to great. Here we call out a few major threads of product experience work to make Channel Management great, but there many more – these are the major bits:


Selling Online.  Being able to sell online is, by most accounts, the most basic use-case of Omnichannel. In many cases, it’s the first truly unique channel a seller has to manage (except in Retail, where online often comes first). E.g. taking a phone order isn’t that different than an in-person order, for most small business, but an online order is a whole other beast. The vast majority of the work here is in the other two categories, platform and channel integrations, but experience work here is building tools to sync / manage inventory across channel, having access to a website builder (or marketplace) that works well with Square. Today we have integrations with many eCommerce sites, but relatively little in the way of making it easy to sign-up, manage, or share inventory. 


Managing Orders. A seller, and to some degree buyers, need a way to manage the status of their order; whether the order is still being built (i.e. an open cart), it’s being assembled, it’s being paid for, it’s being fulfilled / shipped, or some follow-up afterwards (refunds, returns, etc). Our vision for this is an Order dashboard, which will surface in the Square Dashboard as well as in our POSes, with vertical specific affordances in the vertical POSes. For Restaurants, the flagship idea here is the OrderHub, being able to manage Restaurant orders across from the many online marketplaces that restaurants use.


Cross-Channel Reporting. Today our reporting is entirely around transactions, but in an Omnichannel world it needs to be possible to see reporting by order, which might not even have transacted yet, and be able to slice/dice them by channel, same goes for Inventory and other related costs. The major projects going on here are currently in the platform world, around upgrading our infrastructure to be Order-oriented and channel-aware; the customer facing experiences are still in a nascent design stage and currently are simple augmentations of our current reporting, to add channel information.


Cross-Channel Inventory Management.  Our Inventory and Catalog systems were all rebuilt within the last year, primarily to add greater scale, flexibility, and multi-location support. Built-in are lots of ideas around cross-channel management, but as Square in 2017 didn’t have a rich set of channels with integrated inventory, it’s not a place we’ve pushed. The infrastructure here will continue to improve, but the major experiences we’re building in 2018 are around syncing the Catalog and Inventory status across channel, seamlessly and correctly, and being able to choose what you publish to a channel vs not 


Cross-Channel Customer Management. The fundamental problem in this space is unifying buyer identity across various channels. Today, most products don’t do this, but there’s a huge opportunity for us to provide tools and APIs to do this well – when possible. There limitations of what’s possible today, but ultimately this is a major portion of making the experience great. The customers APIs are fundamental to making this possible – and many exist already today, but we are as yet too early-on for many of our other integrations to tackle this problem directly.